Dennis Ritchie had a brilliant idea which was
the basic machine model of C. It says that the memory,
all the data sequences of objects,
and you can refer to them by pointers which are machine addresses with a type.
So fundamentally, a pointer is a machine address and so is,
by the way, a reference.
In memory, they look the same.
A pointer, you then associate the type with it at compile time,
so that you know that you're pointing
to an integer or pointing to a string or something like that.
The memory model of C, which C++ adopted,
is that if you want the integer next to the integers you are pointing to,
you can either say plus one or minus one and navigate through the memory.
That's what a pointer is.
It's a machine address with a type associated with it at compile time.